
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="bootloader">Bootloader</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Bootloader&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;bootloader&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-26&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="installation">Installation</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install bootloader if not already installed:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">pacman -S --needed grub efibootmgr</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Install bootloader to ESP:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">grub-install --target=x86_64-efi --efi-directory=/boot/ --removable</span>
<span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">mount -o remount,rw /sys/firmware/efi/efivars/</span>
<span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">grub-install --target=x86_64-efi --efi-directory=/boot/ --bootloader-id=GRUB</span>
<span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">mount -o remount,ro /sys/firmware/efi/efivars/</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Remove default bootloader theme:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">rm -rf /boot/grub/themes/starfield/</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Installation&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;installation&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;27-528&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="configuration">Configuration</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Configure custom bootloader hook:<dl class="file">
<dt><a href="http://localhost/_export/code/arch/bootloader?codeblock=0" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_d_40_custom">/etc/grub.d/40_custom</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code file text">#!/bin/sh
&nbsp;
## AUTHOR:       AISK11
## LOCATION:     /etc/grub.d/40_custom (0755 root:root)
## DEPENDENCIES: core/grub
## DESCRIPTION:  Bootloader hook.
&nbsp;
## Required line.
exec tail -n +3 &quot;${0}&quot;
&nbsp;
## Custom menu entries.
menuentry 'Reboot Computer' --class restart {
    reboot
}
&nbsp;
menuentry 'Shutdown Computer' --class shutdown {
    halt
}</pre>
</dd></dl>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Make bootloader script executable:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">chmod 0755 /etc/grub.d/40_custom</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Configure bootloader<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>: <dl class="file">
<dt><a href="http://localhost/_export/code/arch/bootloader?codeblock=1" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_">/etc/default/grub</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code file text">## AUTHOR:       AISK11
## LOCATION:     /etc/default/grub (0644 root:root)
## DEPENDENCIES: core/grub
## DESCRIPTION:  Bootloader configuration.
&nbsp;
## OS name.
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR='Arch'
&nbsp;
## Default menu entry.
GRUB_DEFAULT='0'
GRUB_SAVEDEFAULT='false'
&nbsp;
## Time to boot default entry unless key is pressed.
GRUB_TIMEOUT='-1'
GRUB_TIMEOUT_STYLE='menu'
&nbsp;
## Do not generate recovery mode entries.
GRUB_DISABLE_RECOVERY='true'
&nbsp;
## Terminal input devices.
GRUB_TERMINAL_INPUT='console'
&nbsp;
## Terminal output.
GRUB_GFXMODE='auto'
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX='text'
&nbsp;
## Enable encrypted disks.
GRUB_ENABLE_CRYPTODISK='y'
&nbsp;
## Kernel parameters.
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=''
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT='cryptdevice=LABEL=LUKS:luks-root net.ifnames=0 quiet'
&nbsp;
## Bootloader colors (fg/bg).
GRUB_COLOR_NORMAL='white/black'
GRUB_COLOR_HIGHLIGHT='white/black'
&nbsp;
## Bootloader theme.
#GRUB_THEME=''</pre>
</dd></dl>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Apply bootloader configuration changes:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Configuration&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;configuration&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;529-&quot;} --><div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">GRUB2 config options: <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub/html_node/Simple-configuration.html" class="urlextern" title="https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub/html_node/Simple-configuration.html">https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub/html_node/Simple-configuration.html</a>.</div></div>
</div>
