
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="network">Network</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Network&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;network&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-23&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="debloat">Debloat</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Uninstall unwanted software:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">apt purge avahi-daemon</span>
<span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">apt purge bluez bluez-firmware</span>
<span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">apt purge modemmanager</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Disable unneeded network sercices:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">systemctl disable networking.service wpa_supplicant.service</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Debloat&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;debloat&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;24-286&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="configuration">Configuration</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Configuration&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;configuration&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;287-313&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="interfaces">Interfaces</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> Ethernet:</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> No further configuration is needed.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> Wi-Fi:</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Unblock Wi-Fi on startup:<dl class="file">
<dt><a href="http://localhost/_export/code/rpios/network?codeblock=0" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_local">/etc/rc.local</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code file text">#!/bin/sh -e
&nbsp;
## AUTHOR:       AISK11
## LOCATION:     /etc/rc.local (0644 root:root)
## DEPENDENCIES: -
## DESCRIPTION:  Startup commands.
&nbsp;
## Unblock Wi-Fi.
rfkill block all
rfkill unblock wlan
&nbsp;
exit 0</pre>
</dd></dl>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Configure Wi-Fi connectivity to AP:<dl class="file">
<dt><a href="http://localhost/_export/code/rpios/network?codeblock=1" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_conf">/etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code file text">## AUTHOR:       AISK11
## LOCATION:     /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf (0600 root:root)
## DEPENDENCIES: wpasupplicant
## DESCRIPTION:  Wi-Fi settings.
&nbsp;
## Basic settings (required by wpa_cli).
ctrl_interface=/run/wpa_supplicant
ctrl_interface_group=netdev
update_config=1
&nbsp;
## Template - UNPROTECTED.
#network={
#  ssid=&quot;&lt;ESSID&gt;&quot;
#  scan_ssid=1
#  key_mgmt=NONE
#  priority=0
#}
#
## Template - WPA-PSK.
#network={
#  ssid=&quot;&lt;ESSID&gt;&quot;
#  scan_ssid=1
#  key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
#  psk=&quot;&lt;PASSWORD&gt;&quot;
#  priority=2
#}
#
## Template - WPA-EAP EAP-PEAP.
#network={
#  ssid=&quot;&lt;ESSID&gt;&quot;
#  scan_ssid=1
#  key_mgmt=WPA-EAP
#  identity=&quot;&lt;EMAIL@ADDRESS&gt;&quot;
#  password=&quot;&lt;PASSWORD&gt;&quot;
#  phase2=&quot;auth=MSCHAPV2&quot;
#  priority=1
#}</pre>
</dd></dl>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Change Wi-Fi config file permissions:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">chmod 0600 /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Interfaces&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;interfaces&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;314-1593&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="dhcp">DHCP</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Configure DHCP client:<dl class="file">
<dt><a href="http://localhost/_export/code/rpios/network?codeblock=2" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_conf">/etc/dhcpcd.conf</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code file text">## AUTHOR:       AISK11
## LOCATION:     /etc/dhcpcd.conf (0644 root:root)
## DEPENDENCIES: dhcpcd5
## DESCRIPTION:  DHCP client settings.
&nbsp;
## Comma separated list of blocked interface patterns.
#denyinterfaces *
&nbsp;
## Static configuration template (interace cannot be denied).
#interface eth0
#  static ip_address=10.0.0.100/24
#  static routers=10.0.0.1
&nbsp;
## Group to manage dhcpcd via control socket.
controlgroup netdev
&nbsp;
## Do not overwrite '/etc/resolv.conf' with DHCP server DNS configuration.
#nohook resolv.conf
&nbsp;
## Don't check if obtained IPv4 address is taken by arp (increases speed) and
## also disables IPv4LL (APIPA).
noarp
&nbsp;
## Remove any pre-existing IPv4 addresses when adding new IPv4 address.
noalias
&nbsp;
## Anonymous profile (not yet supported).
#anonymous
clientid
vendorclassid
slaac hwaddr</pre>
</dd></dl>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Enable DHCP client on startup:</p><pre class='cli  '><span class="cli_prompt"># </span><span class="cli_command">systemctl enable dhcpcd.service</span></pre><p></div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;DHCP&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;dhcp&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:2,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1594-&quot;} -->